Do final edits to proposal (#3)
cct-datascience/volcalc-isc-proposal: proposal/proposal.Rmd

Using the support from this proposal, we will take our existing tool for calculating volatility of compounds and expand its usage to makes predictions for essentially any compound, and enable researchers in a wide variety of fields to be able to use it with ease. 
The current version of `volcalc` can estimate volatility only for compounds in one chemical database, the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG).
However, by refactoring existing code, we can make the volatility prediction functionality available to essentially any compound that has a known structure.

> Additionally, we plan to improve package infrastructure and documentation (i.e. tests, CI, vignettes, etc.), build the package on r-universe, and submit the package to CRAN in order to simplify installation and make the package easier for users to find and use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we plan to improve package infrastructure and documentation (i.e. tests, CI, vignettes, etc.), build the package on r-universe, and submit the package to CRAN in order to improve discoverability and simplify installation.
```

The current version of `volcalc` was created in 2022 as part of a [data science incubator](https://datascience.cct.arizona.edu/cct-data-science-incubator) project in collaboration between Dr. Kristina Riemer and Dr. Laura Meredith at University of Arizona.
`volcalc` is the first project, to our knowledge, to implement the SIMPOL method for predicting chemical vapor pressures and enthalpies of vaporization [@pankowSIMPOLSimpleGroup2008] in an R package.

> This current version of the `volcalc` package has been successfully used to calculate volatility estimates for *all* 16,000+ compounds in the KEGG database [@meredith]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
volcalc` has been successfully used to calculate volatility estimates for *all* 16,000+ compounds in the KEGG database [@meredith]. 
```

To ensure accuracy of the package, the volatility estimates for a subset of the compounds were validated using hand-collected data [@meredith2022; @honeker2021]. 

> Because `volcalc` is currently limited to only working with chemical compounds from KEGG, we will refactor it to take chemical compound structure files as inputs directly.
> The type of structure file the packagee uses is called a molfile. 

Reviewer: I think this has already been said and can maybe be removed?
```suggestion

```

The main function in `volcalc`, `calc_vol()`, currently downloads chemical information as molfiles from the KEGG API as a starting point.
It reads in that molfile and parses it to find functional groups.
It finally applies an algorithm (published in @pankowSIMPOLSimpleGroup2008) to predict vapor pressure, and outputs to the user a relative measure of volatility.

> A molfile is an open format, and various tools exist to translate other standard representations of chemical structure such as SMILES [@weininger1988smiles] and InChI [@heller2013] to molfiles. 

Reviewer: I think it was correct before.  Like saying "CSV is an open format" or "XLSX is a proprietary format".
```suggestion
Molfile is an open file format, and various tools exist to translate other standard representations of chemical structure such as SMILES [@weininger1988smiles] and InChI [@heller2013] to molfiles. 
```

> This translation can be done using the [`OpenBabel`](http://openbabel.org/wiki/Main_Page) command line utility or in R with [`ChemmineOB`](https://github.com/girke-lab/ChemmineOB).
> Since `ChemmineOB` is already a dependency of `volcalc`, we can additionally extend `volcalc` to allow other representations of chemical structures as inputs.
> Since SMILES and InChl are both string representations, this will ideally make `volcalc` fit more easily into a `data.frame`-based workflow.

Reviewer: Shorten 
```suggestion
This translation can be done using  [`ChemmineOB`](https://github.com/girke-lab/ChemmineOB) which is already a dependency of `volcalc`. SMILES and InChl are both string representations, so adding these as possible inputs will make `volcalc` fit more easily into a `data.frame`-based workflow.
```
